feat(curriculum): create bash scripting quiz (#56424)
freeCodeCamp/freeCodeCamp: curriculum/challenges/english/25-front-end-development/quiz-bash-scripting/66f1afbd9998e9c985d8e73b.md

#### --text--

What is a correct shebang line in bash script?

#### --distractors--

`!#/bin/bash`

---

`/#!bin/bash`

---

`/#!/bin/bash`

#### --answer--

`#!/bin/bash`

### --question--

#### --text--

> Imagine you need to define variable MY_VAR and then print it value to console output. Which code example do it correctly?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Which command would define `MY_VAR` and print it to the console?
```

#### --distractors--

`MY_VAR=10; echo MY_VAR`

---

`$MY_VAR=10; echo MY_VAR`

---

`$MY_VAR=10; echo $MY_VAR`

#### --answer--

`MY_VAR=10; echo $MY_VAR`

### --question--

#### --text--

> How to declare a numeric variable in bash script?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
How do you declare a numeric variable?
```

#### --distractors--

`declare -n MY_VAR=1`

---

`declare -d MY_VAR=1`

---

`declare -x MY_VAR=1`

#### --answer--

`declare -i MY_VAR=1`

### --question--

#### --text--

> Choose incorrect way to run file `script.sh` with executable permission from `/tmp` folder

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Which command would not run a `script.sh` file?
```

#### --distractors--

`./script.sh`

---

`/tmp/script.sh`

---

`bash script.sh`

#### --answer--

`script.sh`

### --question--

#### --text--

> What will be the output of command `type if` ?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
What is the result of the command `type if`?
```

#### --distractors--

> if is a shell builtin

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`if is a shell builtin`
```

---

> if is a shell function

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`if is a shell function`
```

---

`if is a shell variable`

#### --answer--

> `if is a reserved word`

Reviewer 2: I ran the command `type if` and got this answer:

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/6397639f-7c1d-4291-a17e-717e9dd9dbd5)

Reviewer 3: ![screenshot](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/4628b816-370d-41fd-aaa0-118c769e3d83)

This is weird. Cause in my local Ubuntu terminal, it says the same thing this answer states.  If it helps, I'm using OMZ as the shell.

Author: It looks like output of this command is depends on used shell, i didn't notice it. I think it will be better to replace this question.

Reviewer 2: I'd agree with you @dyadyaJora, it would be better to replace the question.

> if is a shell variable

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`if is a shell variable`
```

> if is a shell keyword

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`if is a reserved word`
```

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/b3991995-5c71-46a6-a232-74023403fec8)

### --question--

#### --text--

> What is a correct way to call `print_arguments` function from code snippet to get in output "a" and "b" in arguments list?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
How would you call `print_arguments` to print `a` and `b` to the terminal?
```

```bash
print_arguments() {
  echo "Argument 1: $1"
  echo "Argument 2: $2"
}

```

#### --distractors--

> print_arguments("a", "b")

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`print_arguments("a", "b")`
```

---

> print_arguments(a, b)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`print_arguments(a, b)`
```

---

> print_arguments{a, b}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`print_arguments{a, b}`
```

#### --answer--

> print_arguments "a" "b"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`print_arguments "a" "b"`
```

### --question--

#### --text--

> What is a correct way to initialize array in bash?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
How do you initialize an array in bash?
```

#### --distractors--

`ARR=["item1" "item2" "item3"]`

---

`ARR=[["item1" "item2" "item3"]]`

---

`ARR={"item1" "item2" "item3"}`

#### --answer--

`ARR=("item1" "item2" "item3")`

### --question--

#### --text--

> How to print the third value of array in bash?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
How do you print the third value of an array in bash?
```

#### --distractors--

`echo ${ARR[3]}`

---

`echo $ARR[2]`

---

`echo $ARR[3]`

#### --answer--

`echo ${ARR[2]}`

### --question--

#### --text--

> How to take user input to variable in bash?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
How do you assign user input to a variable in bash?
```

#### --distractors--

`input MY_VAR`

---

`cin MY_VAR`

---

`get MY_VAR`

#### --answer--

`read MY_VAR`

### --question--

#### --text--

> What will be the access rights to file 1.txt after executing the command `chmod 765 1.txt`?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
What will be the permission flags for the `1.txt` file after executing the command `chmod 765 1.txt`?
```

#### --distractors--

`rwxrwxrwx`

---

`rwxr-xrw-`

---

`r-xrw-rwx`

#### --answer--

`rwxrw-r-x`

### --question--

#### --text--

What keyword does the statement `if ... then ...` end with?

#### --distractors--

> end

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`end`
```

---

> done

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`done`
```

---

> stop

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`stop`
```

#### --answer--

> fi

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`fi`
```

### --question--

#### --text--

What keyword does the statement `for ... do ...` end with?

#### --distractors--

> end

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`end`
```

---

> od

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`od`
```

---

> stop

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`stop`
```

#### --answer--

> done

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`done`
```

### --question--

#### --text--

> How to create comment line in bash?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
How do you create a comment in bash?
```

#### --distractors--

`// comment`

---

`!comment`

---

`/* comment`

#### --answer--

`# comment`

### --question--

#### --text--

> What is a correct line could be inserted to code to create for loop?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
What line should you add to the beginning of this snippet to create a `for` loop?
```

> 
> ```bash
> # INSERT CODE HERE
> do
>     echo $i
> done
> ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion

```bash

do
    echo $i
done
```
````

We can't use comments as instructional content.

#### --distractors--

> for ( int i = 0; i < 10; i++ )

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`for ( int i = 0; i < 10; i++ )`
```

---

> for (( int i = 0; i < 10; i++ ))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`for (( int i = 0; i < 10; i++ ))`
```

---

> for (( let i = 0; i < 10; i++ ))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`for (( let i = 0; i < 10; i++ ))`
```

#### --answer--

> for (( i = 0; i < 10; i++ ))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`for (( i = 0; i < 10; i++ ))`
```

### --question--

#### --text--

> How to write arithmetic addition of two numbers in variables A and B in Bash language and write the result in C?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
How would you assign the result of the sum of variables `A` and `B` to the variable `C`?
```

#### --distractors--

`C=$A + $B`

---

`C=$(( A + B ))`

---

`$C=$(( $A + $B ))`

#### --answer--

`C=$(( $A + $B ))`

### --question--

#### --text--

> What keyword in loop skips the rest of the current loop iteration and continues with the next iteration?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
What keyword in a loop skips the rest of the current iteration and begins the next iteration?
```

#### --distractors--

> break

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`break`
```

---

> until

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`until`
```

---

> done

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`done`
```

#### --answer--

> continue

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`continue`
```

### --question--

#### --text--

> What does command `echo $?` do?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
What does the command `echo $?` do?
```

#### --distractors--

> Returns value of last used variable

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Prints the value of the last used variable
```

---

> Returns value of last used arithmetic operation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Prints the value of the last used arithmetic operation
```

---

> Returns value of last executed condition

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Prints the value of the last executed condition
```

#### --answer--

> Returns exit code of last executed command

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Prints the exit code of the last executed command
```

### --question--

#### --text--

> What values of MY_VAR variable passed over next condition `[[ $MY_VAR =~ ^[A-Z]{1}[a-z]+$ ]]` ?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
What value of `MY_VAR` would satisfy the condition `[[ $MY_VAR =~ ^[A-Z]{1}[a-z]+$ ]]` ?
```

#### --distractors--

> freeCodeCamp

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`freeCodeCamp`
```

---

> FreeCodeCamp

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`FreeCodeCamp`
```

---

> freecodecamp

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`freecodecamp`
```

#### --answer--

> Freecodecamp

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`Freecodecamp`
```

### --question--

#### --text--

What types of loops exist in bash?

#### --distractors--

> for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`for`
```

---

> for, while

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`for`, `while`
```

---

> for, while, until, forEach

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`for`, `while`, `until`, `forEach`
```

#### --answer--

> for, while, until

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`for`, `while`, `until`
```

### --question--

#### --text--

> How to print all values of array in bash?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
How do you print all values of an array in bash?
```
